Dear attendees of the Feb 4 MAPP workshop in Berkeley,

Here are some instructions for preparing for the workshop. Please go through
these and do the setup _before_ coming to the workshop, since there will not
be time during the workshop to do the setup.

Below, we describe how to obtain MAPP (the Berkeley Model and Algorithm
Prototyping Platform) and VAPP (the Berkeley Verilog-A Parser and Processor),
which you will be using during the workshop. Both are MATLAB based tools, so
you will need to have MATLAB installed on your own laptop.


Step 0: Getting MATLAB
----------------------

MAPP and VAPP are MATLAB-based tools. To run them, you need a working 
MATLAB installation on your laptop. If you already have MATLAB working, you
can go straight to Step 1 below.

If you don't already have MATLAB, one quick option is to get a 30-day trial
version of MATLAB (for which you will need a good internet connection and at
least about 6GB of free space on your hard drive). Please visit
http://mathworks.com and get a trial version.

Step 1: Getting MAPP/VAPP up and running
----------------------------------------

Assuming you have a working MATLAB, here's how you get MAPP/VAPP working:

1.1. Please download a tarball (a tarball is sort of like a zip file)
     of MAPP/VAPP from
     http://mapp.eecs.berkeley.edu/MAPP-VAPP-2016-02-04-workshop.tgz.

1.2. Extract the MAPP/VAPP tarball: 

     - Unix (eg, linux) users: this would be done by running the following
       command:

        $ tar -xvzf MAPP-VAPP-2016-02-04-workshop.tgz
     
     - Microsoft Windows users: please do NOT use winzip to untar the tarball,
       it can produce unexpected results because some versions mess up soft
       links, important for MAPP. We recommend you use the free program 7-zip
       instead. You can download 7zip here: http://www.7-zip.org/. 
       Please download the very latest version.

     - On OSX (Macs), best to open a command terminal and give the above Unix
       command (Macs run Unix underneath). We have heard that point and click
       extraction of tarballs can cause problems in OSX too, but the command
       line way above is know to work.

     Once extracted, a directory (aka folder) named
     MAPP-VAPP-2016-02-04-workshop will be created, containing the code for
     MAPP and VAPP.

1.3. To set up MAPP/VAPP properly, you need to edit one file: 
     - Please enter the directory ("cd MAPP-VAPP-2016-02-04-workshop") and 
       edit the file start_MAPP.m using your favourite _text_ editor (please
       note that Microsoft Word is NOT a text editor; please use, eg, Notepad
       or MATLAB's built-in editor instead). 
     - You need to change only the very first line. Please set the variable 
       "basedir" to a string that contains the full path name of MAPP
       installation (i.e., the full path to the MAPP-VAPP-2016-02-04-workshop
       directory created above). Then save the file and exit the editor.

1.4. Set up MATLAB so that MAPP/VAPP start whenever MATLAB is fired up. 

     If you haven't set up your own MATLAB startup script (if you don't 
     know what this is, you probably don't have one set up), rename 
     start_MAPP.m to startup.m and move startup.m to a place that
     MATLAB automatically sources (such as ~/Documents/MATLAB/startup.m 
     on linux/Windows/Mac OS X).
     
     If you already have a MATLAB startup script, you could just append the
     contents of start_MAPP.m to your existing startup.m script.

1.5. Test that MAPP works correctly. Go (cd to) any directory _outside_ 
     the MAPP/VAPP installation directory MAPP-VAPP-2016-02-04-workshop. Start
     MATLAB, and you should immediately see a message saying "This is the
     Berkeley Model and Algorithm Prototyping Platform" and some version
     information printed below. This indicates that MAPP is properly installed.
     To quickly check the correctness of the installation, run the following
     command at the MATLAB prompt:

         >> MAPPtest_quick()

     This will run several tests on simple devices and circuits in MAPP. It
     should tell you that all tests have passed. If not, please contact us.

     (We don't have automatic tests for VAPP yet, but it's been installed as
      part of MAPP).

And that's it. You're now ready for the workshop!

Tianshi Wang, Gokcen Mahmutoglu, Jaijeet Roychowdhury (the MAPP team at Berkeley)

PS: these instructions are downloadable at
http://mapp.eecs.berkeley.edu/2016-Feb-04--MAPP-Berkeley-workshop--instructions.txt
