
You have 2 options for running MAPP. You can either choose to run MAPP 
locally on your laptop, or you can run MAPP as a web-based tool made 
available through nanoHUB. Instructions for each are provided below.

Option 1: Running MAPP locally
------------------------------

Step 1: Getting MATLAB
----------------------

MAPP is a MATLAB-based tool. To run it, you need access to a working 
MATLAB installation. If you already have MATLAB working, you can go 
straight to Step 2 below.

If you don't have access to MATLAB, you can get a 30-day trial version
of MATLAB (for which you will need a good internet connection and at
least about 6GB of free space on your hard drive).

Step 2: Getting MAPP up and running
-----------------------------------

Assuming you have a working MATLAB installation, here's how you can get 
MAPP working:

2.1. Downloading MAPP. I'm assuming you already have the MAPP tarball 
     (as well as a tarball containing the scripts you will need for this 
     workshop) downloaded and saved locally.

2.2. Untar the MAPP tarball. In a Unix like system, this would be done 
     by running the following command:

        $ tar -xvzf MAPP-alpha-v1.00.02-pre.tgz
     
     Or, depending on your OS, you may be able to just double-click the 
     tarball and have it automatically be untarred for you. (Note to 
     Windows users: do NOT use winzip to untar the tarball, it can 
     produce unexpected results. Use a program like 7-zip instead.).

     Either way, a directory named "MAPP-alpha-v1.00.02-pre" will be 
     created. This directory will contain everything needed for MAPP to 
     run within a MATLAB session.

2.3. Edit paths in a couple of files. The next step is to edit the 2 
     files startup_MAPP.m and setuppaths_MAPP.m located in the 
     MAPP-alpha-v1.00.02-pre/ directory above. Both these files set a 
     variable "basedir" that points to the root directory of the MAPP 
     installation (i.e., the full path to the MAPP-alpha-v1.00.02-pre
     directory created above). So set the basedir variable in both these 
     files to the appropriate path string.

2.4. Set up MATLAB so that MAPP starts whenever MATLAB is fired up. 

     If you haven't set up your own MATLAB startup script (if you don't 
     know what this is, you probably don't have one set up), rename 
     startup_MAPP.m to startup.m and move startup.m to a place that
     MATLAB automatically sources (such as ~/.matlab/startup.m on Linux,
     or ~/Documents/MATLAB/startup.m on Windows/Mac OS X). 
     
     If you already have a MATLAB startup script, append the contents 
     of startup_MAPP.m to your startup script.

2.5. Test that MAPP works correctly. Start MATLAB, and you should 
     immediately see a message saying "This is the Berkeley Model and 
     Algorithm Prototyping Platform" and some version information 
     printed below. This indicates that MAPP is installed. To quickly 
     check the correctness of the installation, run the following 
     command at the MATLAB prompt:

         >> MAPPtest(allMAPPtests('realquick'))

     This will run a bunch of tests on simple devices and circuits in 
     MAPP. If it tells you that all tests passed, you're good to go.


Option 2: Running MAPP via nanoHUB
----------------------------------

MAPP is also available as a web-based nanoHUB tool. To run MAPP this 
way, you will need a nanoHUB account with MATLAB access privileges. If 
you don't have this, please contact Xufeng Wang <wang159@purdue.edu>.

To run MAPP via nanohub, visit https://nanohub.org/tools/mde (you may 
need to log in to your nanoHUB account first). Hit the "Launch tool" 
button to the right. Your browser may ask you to approve running Java, 
etc. for this application. Once you approve, the application will start 
and a VNC-based graphical MATLAB session running MAPP will be opened 
for you right in your browser. If you face any issues, please contact
Xufeng Wang <wang159@purdue.edu>.

For the workshop, you will also need a few MATLAB scripts that we have
prepared. Assuming that you have already downloaded the tarball
containing these scripts, you can transfer this tarball to your running
nanoHUB session using either SFTP to <youraccount>@nanohub.org or the
graphical Import/Export widget that the session gives you. When the
transfer is complete, untar the tarball by typing the following at your
MATLAB prompt:

    >> system('tar -xvzf 2015-May-12--MAPP-MIT-workshop-scripts.tgz')

And that's it. You're now ready for the workshop!

