
Instructions for installing a 30-day trial version of MATLAB
------------------------------------------------------------

You will need a good internet connection and (at least) about 6GB of 
free space on your hard drive.


1. Create a Mathworks account (if you don't have one already) at 
   https://mathworks.com/. Mathworks will ask you for an email address 
   while doing so. Then Mathworks will send you a link to this email 
   address to verify it. Click this link, and you will be taken to a 
   page where you can create a username, set a password for your 
   Mathworks account, etc.

2. Once you complete the above and log in to your Mathworks account, 
   you should see a "Trial software" link somewhere on the page. Click 
   on this. It may ask ask you for a few details, such as which state 
   you're from, which university/company you belong to, etc. As far as 
   we can tell, you will be getting the same trial version of MATLAB no 
   matter which company/university you belong to.

3. If Mathworks gives you a choice between a "Packaged trial" and an 
   "Assisted trial". Choose "Packaged trial".

4. When asked to "select your areas of interest", check "Computational 
   Biology". We suggest that you leave everything else unchecked. Check 
   the "I certify this information to be true" checkbox and hit 
   Continue.

5. The web site may ask you a few more questions, but eventually it will 
   give you a few options asking you which trial version of MATLAB you 
   want to install (the Windows version, the Mac OS X version, etc.). 
   Choose the version appropriate to your OS and begin the download.
   This will download a "MATLAB installer" for your system: think of 
   this as a small "set up" program whose only job is to help you 
   download and install the real program (MATLAB).

6. Now you're ready to install MATLAB using the installer above. 

    6.1. In your file manager, go to wherever MATLAB has downloaded the 
         installer. For example, in Mac OS X, this location by default 
         is the Downloads/ directory under your home directory. 
         
         If you're using Windows, the installer will probably just be a 
         single exe file. Run this file to start the installation 
         process. 
         
         If you're using Linux or Mac OS X, the installer may be a zip 
         or other archive: in this case, unzip/extract it first and 
         look inside. The unzipped directory will contain an executable 
         with a blindingly obvious name, such as "install" or 
         "InstallForMacOSX". Run this executable. 

    6.2. The installer will take you from one GUI screen to the next. 
         Most options that it gives you are straightforward: choose 
         appropriately and proceed with the installation.

    6.3. When MATLAB asks you which toolboxes you want to install, 
         choose (at a minimum) the Bioinformatics toolbox and the 
         Statistics and Machine Learning toolbox.

    6.4. Finally, hit Install. MATLAB will then download several 
         hundred MBs worth of data and install itself to wherever you 
         specified. Here's when a good internet connection will come in 
         handy.

    6.5. When the installation is complete, the installer will ask you 
         to "Activate MATLAB". When you do, the trial version will be 
         deemed active and your 30-day countdown will start. You will 
         see an "activation confirmed" dialog. At this point, hit 
         "Finish", and the installer will exit.
         
7. Running MATLAB. 

    Soon after completing the MATLAB installation above, we recommend 
    that you test it to make sure it works as expected.

    On Windows/Linux systems, once MATLAB has finished installing 
    itself, you will find an executable (named matlab) in the bin/ 
    directory of the installation. This is the MATLAB application. 
    Running it will fire off the familiar MATLAB splash screen and 
    leave you at the MATLAB command prompt. 

    On Mac OS X, the entire MATLAB application will be packaged into a 
    single file within the installation directory. Clicking on this 
    file will start MATLAB and leave you at the familiar MATLAB command 
    prompt.

    Congrats, you now have a working 30-day trial version of MATLAB.


